Improving Our Communication with You

A great deal is happening at DC Books to Prisons (BtP), and we want to keep our volunteers
and supporters informed. We are going to do this in several ways:

* This newsletter, which previously came out no more than four times per year, will now be 
published at least six times per year. (Not sure how you came to be subscribed? Please
contact us if you believe that someone else subscribed you without your consent, or use the
link at the end of the newsletter to unsubscribe.)

* We plan to increase our use of the prisonlit-announce mailing list, which will be used 
to announce opportunities of interest to our local volunteers and book donors. Not 
subscribed yet? You can subscribe by sending a blank e-mail message to 
prisonlit-announce-subscribe@yahoogroups.com.

* We will continue to post to Twitter links to books-in-prisons news stories from around 
the world, plus updates on our activities, excerpts of letters from prisoners, and other 
items of interest. These can be read even if you aren't a Twitter user. Simply go to 
http://www.twitter.com/b2pdc and scroll through our tweets.

* We also have a presence on Facebook, at https://www.facebook.com/DCBooksToPrisons/ 


Prison Book Restrictions

Each prison system has rules on what books can be sent to prisoners, and who may send books.
Dedicated volunteers spend a great deal of time on the telephone to prison staff, determining
that one prison allows only softcover books, another allows only new books, another allows
only religious books, and so on.

On several recent occasions, prison book restrictions have made the news. In New York, 
prison authorities started implementing a policy that only an extremely small number of 
authorized vendors could send books, and at one point fewer than 100 titles were available 
from these vendors! After a public outcry, Governor Cuomo announced that the policy would 
be rescinded.

In both New Jersey and North Carolina, state chapters of the ACLU requested that prisons in
their states lift bans on prisoners reading Michelle Alexander's book "The New Jim Crow", and
those bans were quickly overturned.

In April, the government of Maryland implemented severe new restrictions on books for 
prisoners. One of the new rules prevented prisoners from obtaining books from groups like 
DC Books to Prisons or even online retailers like Amazon, instead restricting them to 
ordering books from two approved vendors. The ACLU noted that these vendors had such 
limited selections that prisoners would no longer be able to obtain, in the paperback 
format required by Maryland prisons, any of the Harry Potter books or any books by 
Langston Hughes or Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Our group was one of many that protested the 
new book restrictions. Eventually, in June, the new restrictions were lifted, and we 
resumed sending books to prisoners in Maryland. More details about the situation in 
Maryland are available on our web site.

Not all news is good. Prison book programs, including BtP, have been blocked from sending 
books to state prisoners in Arizona. A similar ban applies to three prisons in Indiana.

Another area of concern is the inability, in some locations, to determine which books are 
prohibited. Journalist Jacob Rosenberg of the Arkansas Times has used Freedom of Information 
requests in an attempt to learn which books are prohibited in his state, without success.

We will continue to follow these stories, and will let you know of major developments.



Letter from Inmate

Thank you very much for sending the two titles:
	- Master and Commander
	- Colgate's Basic Sailing

I love them both! I've known of Patrick O'Brian's books for a while but completely forgot 
about them. Now I must read them all! Oh, how I long to be a sailor on a 250 year old tall 
ship! What an exciting life it must have been. Sometimes when I'm daydreaming, I imagine 
that I'm not a prisoner but a pressganged sailor on a giant ship. Sometimes, the ship is 
an enormous hulking spaceship from Warhammer 40K. :-) The wild sleep and slave assignment 
schedules make it easy to dream up such alternate realities. And it sure beats the 
dreariness of actual prison. The creative mind cannot be confined!

... Thank you for your hard work. Thank you for your effort. Time. Monies. Thank you for 
TWICE choosing material that spurred my intellect and imagination and freeing me, if but 
mentally and momentarily, from my awful conditions. May your sails be always full, my 
friends!



Freeing Children's Minds: 2,000 Libros

Although most of our work involves sending books to adult prisoners, there are times when 
we provide books to children. Regular readers of this newsletter will recall that we 
provide children's books and magazines to the visiting and waiting rooms of prisons 
operated by the federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP). Children with incarcerated family members 
enjoy these materials while visiting their parents.

On Independence Day, with freedom very much on the mind, we announced our support of
2,000 Libros, a project to free the minds of the country's youngest prisoners, immigrant
children in detention centers. While taking no position on immigration policy in general,
we believe that children detained due to their immigration status should have access to
books, just as we believe that adults imprisoned due to criminal convictions should have
access to books.

So far, 2,000 Libros has sent around 900 Spanish-language and English/Spanish bilingual 
children's and young-adult books to detention centers around the country. Local book 
stores assisted greatly by serving as drop-off locations for these books during July. A 
store in Arlington, Virginia, One More Page Books, even matched donations! We are grateful 
to One More Page Books, Politics and Prose, East City Bookshop, Busboys and Poets, and 
Kramerbooks and Afterwords for their assistance. We are also very grateful to the many 
members of the public who donated books. Although the book drives in local book stores are 
now over, we continue to receive books via three online wish lists and will continue 
sending them to detention centers.

At the time 2,000 Libros was started, the focus was on getting books into the hands of
children who had been separated from their parents or other caregivers at the border.
Now that most of those children have been returned to their parents, the focus is shifting
to providing books to children (mostly teens) who reached the border unaccompanied.

More information about 2,000 Libros can be seen on our web site, including links to news 
articles about the project. Most articles were written by U.S. media, but there are also 
articles published in France and Peru! In addition to news articles, the web site has links
to the three online wish lists and updated information on the number of books sent.

DC Books to Prisons will continue to focus on serving adults in state and federal
prisons, while also supporting this important initiative to serve our nation's youngest
prisoners.


Thank You

We are grateful to the many, many people and organizations who have donated books to us.
Among them are:

* Marlin at Sidwell Friends School, who donated many boxes of well-chosen books.

* Kathleen, who regularly brings in Spanish-language books in popular genres like science 
fiction.

* Authors G.S. Prendergast and James Forman Jr. for donating copies of books they had
written.

* Carpe Librum, which donated many books to us, including much-needed paperback fantasy novels.

* Groups that have held book drives for us, including St. John's Episcopal Church, Norwood 
Parish; Logan Exchange, which also generously provided us with storage space; and Arnold 
&amp; Porter.

[photo of stacks of pristine dictionaries, Koontz novels, and Patterson novels]

* Groups that have allowed us to sort through and take some of the books left over at the 
end of their book sales, including Friends of the Calvert County Library, the 
Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School PTSA, the Gaithersburg branch of AAUW, the Junior League of 
Washington, and Metropolitan United Methodist Women.

* A Wider Circle, Augustana Lutheran Church, and Alfred Street Baptist Church (Library), 
all of which donated books.


Most of the prisoners we serve are located far from us, so money must be spent mailing the
books to them. We are very grateful to everyone who has contributed to our fundraising efforts.
Among them are:

* Michele, who planned our Giving Tuesday campaign, and all the generous people who
gave in response to it.

* Alexis Goldstein of the Humorless Queers podcast, who amplified the Giving Tuesday 
campaign and asked her Twitter followers to give to us. This generated an extraordinary 
response, and we are grateful to each individual who donated.

* Lori, who planned the "Postage Hike" fundraiser, and everyone who participated in it. 
This event consisted of a hike through Rock Creek Park, a trip to a book store, and a 
bagel lunch.

* Local musicians and bands Herschel Hoover, Barking Carnies, Chill Parents, and Trigger 
Warning, who played a benefit show for BtP. We especially thank Herschel Hoover, who 
rented the space, and volunteers Jason and Andy. Andy is best known at BtP for handling 
challenging book requests, but at the benefit show he instead handled drum sticks in his 
role as Chill Parents' drummer. [photo of Chill Parents]

* Politics and Prose's Connecticut Avenue store, which allowed us to table at the store
on June 1 and then donated to us a portion of that day's sales.

We are also very grateful to all the generous people who have made individual donations. 
Recently, three generous people each gave multiple sheets of postage stamps, and their 
collective generosity has allowed over one hundred prisoners to receive packages of books 
in the mail. Many other individuals made monetary donations.


Support Our Work

Please consider making a donation to fund our important work. DC Books to Prisons is
run entirely by a small group of dedicated volunteers. Your donations help cover
shipping costs, which are the largest drain on our resources.

We welcome both checks and online donations. If donating through PayPal, you
can opt to make your donation a recurring, monthly donation.

[Insert button here]

We also welcome the donation of self-adhesive stamps, especially those worth $1, $1.15, or $2.
These can be sent to us at: DC Books to Prisons - Donations, PO Box 34190, Washington,
DC 20043.


[Insert standard newsletter footer here. In the footer, change the copyright
year to 2018.]
